docs-site/src/content/docs/configuration/prompts-guide.mdx, before:

---
title: Prompts Guide
description: Write effective email classification prompts
---

# Prompts Guide

Learn how to write effective classification prompts for Mailpilot.

## How Prompts Work

Your prompt is the first part of what gets sent to the LLM. Mailpilot automatically appends:
- The list of allowed/existing folders (based on your folder mode)
- The allowed action types (if you've restricted them)
- The JSON response schema
- The email content to classify

**You only need to write classification instructions.** Don't include available actions or JSON format—it's handled automatically.

## Basic Prompt Example

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  You are an email classifier. Organize emails to help maintain inbox zero.

  Guidelines:
  - Important emails from real people: keep in INBOX or flag
  - Newsletters and marketing: move to "Newsletters"
  - Order confirmations and receipts: move to "Receipts"
  - Social notifications: move to "Social"
  - Suspicious or unwanted: mark as spam
```

That's it. The system adds everything else.

## What Gets Auto-Injected

When your prompt is sent to the LLM, Mailpilot appends these sections automatically:

### Folders

Based on your `folders.mode` setting:
- **Predefined mode:** "You may ONLY move emails to these folders: ..."
- **Auto-create mode:** "These folders already exist. Prefer using existing folders: ..."

### Allowed Actions

If your account has `allowed_actions` configured:
- "You may ONLY use these action types: move, read, noop"
- "DO NOT use these action types: delete, spam"

### Response Format

Always appended:
```json
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "type": "move" | "spam" | "flag" | "read" | "delete" | "noop",
      "folder": "string (required for move action)",
      "flags": ["string array (required for flag action)"],
      "reason": "string (optional, for audit log)"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Confidence and Reasoning

When confidence scoring is enabled:
```json
{
  "actions": [...],
  "confidence": 0.95,
  "reasoning": "Brief explanation of classification"
}
```

Low-confidence classifications are routed to the dead letter queue for manual review.

## Action Types Reference

| Type | Required Fields | Description |
|------|-----------------|-------------|
| `move` | `folder` | Move email to specified folder |
| `spam` | - | Mark as spam and move to spam folder |
| `flag` | `flags` | Add flags (see below) |
| `read` | - | Mark email as read |
| `delete` | - | Delete the email |
| `noop` | - | No action (leave as-is) |

### Flag Values

- `Flagged` - Star/flag the email
- `Seen` - Mark as read
- `Answered` - Mark as replied
- `Draft` - Mark as draft
- `Deleted` - Mark for deletion

### Multiple Actions

The LLM can return multiple actions:
```json
{
  "actions": [
    {"type": "move", "folder": "Work/Important"},
    {"type": "flag", "flags": ["Flagged"]},
    {"type": "read"}
  ]
}
```

## Writing Good Prompts

### 1. Define the Role

Tell the LLM what kind of inbox it's managing:

```
You are an email classifier for a professional inbox.
Your job is to organize emails while ensuring nothing important is missed.
```

### 2. Set Classification Rules

Be specific about how to handle different email types:

```
Rules:
- Emails from @company.com are work-related
- Marketing emails go to "Newsletters"
- GitHub notifications go to "GitHub"
- Calendar invites stay in INBOX
```

### 3. Define Priorities

Help the LLM understand what matters:

```
Priority rules:
- Emails from boss@company.com are always important—flag them
- Urgent keywords: "ASAP", "deadline", "critical"
- Team standup notes can be marked as read
```

## Example Prompts

### Personal Email

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Classify personal email.

  Categories:
  - Shopping: Orders, shipping, receipts
  - Newsletters: Subscriptions and marketing
  - Social: Social media notifications
  - Important: Urgent personal matters

  Rules:
  - Family emails: flag, keep in INBOX
  - Order confirmations: move to Shopping
  - Marketing: move to Newsletters
  - Social notifications: move to Social
```

### Developer Inbox

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Classify for a developer inbox.

  Categories:
  - GitHub: Pull requests, issues, CI notifications
  - Deploy: Deployment and infrastructure alerts
  - Security: Security advisories, vulnerability reports
  - Newsletters: Tech newsletters and digests

  Rules:
  - PRs/issues from my repos: flag
  - CI failures: flag, move to Deploy
  - Security alerts: flag, move to Security
  - Dependabot: move to Security
  - Weekly digests: move to Newsletters
```

### Business Inbox

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Classify email for a sales professional.

  Categories:
  - Clients: Client communications
  - Leads: Prospect inquiries
  - Invoices: Billing and payments
  - Reports: Automated reports

  Rules:
  - Existing clients: flag, keep in INBOX
  - New inquiries: flag, move to Leads
  - Invoices: move to Invoices
  - Automated reports: mark as read, move to Reports
  - Meeting requests: keep in INBOX
```

## Advanced Techniques

### VIP Sender List

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  VIP senders (always flag and keep in INBOX):
  - boss@company.com
  - ceo@company.com
  - Any @important-client.com address

  All other emails follow normal classification rules.
```

### Multi-Factor Analysis

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Analyze each email considering:
  1. Sender: Human or automated system?
  2. Urgency: Requires immediate attention?
  3. Action needed: Needs a response?
  4. Content type: Transactional, marketing, or personal?

  Decision matrix:
  - Human + Urgent + Action needed = flag, keep in INBOX
  - Human + Not urgent = move to appropriate folder
  - Automated + Important = move to relevant folder
  - Automated + Marketing = move to Newsletters
```

### Conditional Flagging

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Flag emails that:
  - Mention deadlines in the next 48 hours
  - Contain words: urgent, ASAP, immediately, critical
  - Are replies to threads you started

  Flagged emails can still be moved to appropriate folders.
```

## Tips for Local Models

Smaller models (7B parameters) work better with simpler prompts:

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Classify email by type.

  - Marketing/newsletters -> Newsletters
  - Orders/receipts -> Receipts
  - Important/urgent -> flag
  - Everything else -> appropriate folder
```

**Tips:**
- Keep prompts under 300 words
- Use simple, direct instructions
- Fewer categories work better
- Avoid complex reasoning chains

## Testing Your Prompts

### Use the Dashboard Sandbox

The best way to test prompts is with the **Sandbox** tab:

1. Navigate to the **Sandbox** tab
2. Enter or modify your classification prompt
3. Enter a sample email
4. Configure folder mode and allowed actions
5. Click **Run Test**

The sandbox shows:
- **Actions tab:** Classified actions, confidence, reasoning
- **Prompt tab:** Full prompt sent to LLM
- **Raw Response tab:** Raw LLM response and token usage

### Enable Debug Logging

```yaml
logging:
  level: debug
```

### Use Dry Run Mode

```yaml
dry_run: true
```

Actions are logged but not executed.

## Troubleshooting

### Wrong Folder Names

**Problem:** LLM uses folders not in your allowed list

**Solution:** In predefined mode, the system tells the LLM which folders are allowed. If it still uses wrong names, make your classification rules clearer.

### Inconsistent Results

**Problem:** Same email type gets different classifications

**Solution:** Add explicit examples:
```
Examples:
- "Your Amazon order has shipped" -> Receipts
- "Weekly Tech Digest" -> Newsletters
```

### Actions Not Executing

**Problem:** LLM returns actions that don't run

**Possible causes:**
- Action type not in `allowed_actions`
- Folder doesn't exist (predefined mode)
- Check logs for "Blocked disallowed action"

## Next Steps

- [Folder modes →](/docs/configuration/folder-modes)
- [Configure accounts →](/docs/configuration/accounts)
- [Test in dashboard →](/docs/features/dashboard)

Commit message:

feat: add interactive components (Phase 4)
Add interactive documentation components to enhance user experience:

Components:
- SetupWizard: Multi-step wizard for guided configuration
  - Email provider selection (Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo, iCloud, ProtonMail, generic)
  - LLM provider selection (OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, OpenRouter)
  - Use case templates (personal, business, developer)
  - Generates customized config.yaml and environment variables

- ConfigSandbox: Browser-based configuration testing
  - YAML validation with error/warning feedback
  - Configuration preview showing parsed accounts/providers
  - Prompt testing visualization
  - Security notice: client-side only, no server transmission

- VersionDiff: Breaking change visualization
  - Side-by-side comparison of v1.x vs v2.x configurations
  - Inline diff view with added/removed/changed highlighting
  - Warning callouts for breaking changes
  - Migration guide suggestions

- MatrixChatWidget: Community chat integration
  - Embedded Matrix chat access
  - Expandable/collapsible widget
  - Direct links to Element and Matrix.to
  - Community support integration

Integration:
- Added SetupWizard to installation page
- Added ConfigSandbox to prompts guide page
- Added MatrixChatWidget to troubleshooting page

All components are client-side React with TypeScript.
YAML parsing uses 'yaml' package for validation.

docs-site/src/content/docs/configuration/prompts-guide.mdx, after:

---
title: Prompts Guide
description: Write effective email classification prompts
---

import { ConfigSandbox } from '@/components/ConfigSandbox';

# Prompts Guide

Learn how to write effective classification prompts for Mailpilot.

## How Prompts Work

Your prompt is the first part of what gets sent to the LLM. Mailpilot automatically appends:
- The list of allowed/existing folders (based on your folder mode)
- The allowed action types (if you've restricted them)
- The JSON response schema
- The email content to classify

**You only need to write classification instructions.** Don't include available actions or JSON format—it's handled automatically.

## Basic Prompt Example

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  You are an email classifier. Organize emails to help maintain inbox zero.

  Guidelines:
  - Important emails from real people: keep in INBOX or flag
  - Newsletters and marketing: move to "Newsletters"
  - Order confirmations and receipts: move to "Receipts"
  - Social notifications: move to "Social"
  - Suspicious or unwanted: mark as spam
```

That's it. The system adds everything else.

## What Gets Auto-Injected

When your prompt is sent to the LLM, Mailpilot appends these sections automatically:

### Folders

Based on your `folders.mode` setting:
- **Predefined mode:** "You may ONLY move emails to these folders: ..."
- **Auto-create mode:** "These folders already exist. Prefer using existing folders: ..."

### Allowed Actions

If your account has `allowed_actions` configured:
- "You may ONLY use these action types: move, read, noop"
- "DO NOT use these action types: delete, spam"

### Response Format

Always appended:
```json
{
  "actions": [
    {
      "type": "move" | "spam" | "flag" | "read" | "delete" | "noop",
      "folder": "string (required for move action)",
      "flags": ["string array (required for flag action)"],
      "reason": "string (optional, for audit log)"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Confidence and Reasoning

When confidence scoring is enabled:
```json
{
  "actions": [...],
  "confidence": 0.95,
  "reasoning": "Brief explanation of classification"
}
```

Low-confidence classifications are routed to the dead letter queue for manual review.

## Action Types Reference

| Type | Required Fields | Description |
|------|-----------------|-------------|
| `move` | `folder` | Move email to specified folder |
| `spam` | - | Mark as spam and move to spam folder |
| `flag` | `flags` | Add flags (see below) |
| `read` | - | Mark email as read |
| `delete` | - | Delete the email |
| `noop` | - | No action (leave as-is) |

### Flag Values

- `Flagged` - Star/flag the email
- `Seen` - Mark as read
- `Answered` - Mark as replied
- `Draft` - Mark as draft
- `Deleted` - Mark for deletion

### Multiple Actions

The LLM can return multiple actions:
```json
{
  "actions": [
    {"type": "move", "folder": "Work/Important"},
    {"type": "flag", "flags": ["Flagged"]},
    {"type": "read"}
  ]
}
```

## Writing Good Prompts

### 1. Define the Role

Tell the LLM what kind of inbox it's managing:

```
You are an email classifier for a professional inbox.
Your job is to organize emails while ensuring nothing important is missed.
```

### 2. Set Classification Rules

Be specific about how to handle different email types:

```
Rules:
- Emails from @company.com are work-related
- Marketing emails go to "Newsletters"
- GitHub notifications go to "GitHub"
- Calendar invites stay in INBOX
```

### 3. Define Priorities

Help the LLM understand what matters:

```
Priority rules:
- Emails from boss@company.com are always important—flag them
- Urgent keywords: "ASAP", "deadline", "critical"
- Team standup notes can be marked as read
```

## Example Prompts

### Personal Email

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Classify personal email.

  Categories:
  - Shopping: Orders, shipping, receipts
  - Newsletters: Subscriptions and marketing
  - Social: Social media notifications
  - Important: Urgent personal matters

  Rules:
  - Family emails: flag, keep in INBOX
  - Order confirmations: move to Shopping
  - Marketing: move to Newsletters
  - Social notifications: move to Social
```

### Developer Inbox

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Classify for a developer inbox.

  Categories:
  - GitHub: Pull requests, issues, CI notifications
  - Deploy: Deployment and infrastructure alerts
  - Security: Security advisories, vulnerability reports
  - Newsletters: Tech newsletters and digests

  Rules:
  - PRs/issues from my repos: flag
  - CI failures: flag, move to Deploy
  - Security alerts: flag, move to Security
  - Dependabot: move to Security
  - Weekly digests: move to Newsletters
```

### Business Inbox

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Classify email for a sales professional.

  Categories:
  - Clients: Client communications
  - Leads: Prospect inquiries
  - Invoices: Billing and payments
  - Reports: Automated reports

  Rules:
  - Existing clients: flag, keep in INBOX
  - New inquiries: flag, move to Leads
  - Invoices: move to Invoices
  - Automated reports: mark as read, move to Reports
  - Meeting requests: keep in INBOX
```

## Advanced Techniques

### VIP Sender List

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  VIP senders (always flag and keep in INBOX):
  - boss@company.com
  - ceo@company.com
  - Any @important-client.com address

  All other emails follow normal classification rules.
```

### Multi-Factor Analysis

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Analyze each email considering:
  1. Sender: Human or automated system?
  2. Urgency: Requires immediate attention?
  3. Action needed: Needs a response?
  4. Content type: Transactional, marketing, or personal?

  Decision matrix:
  - Human + Urgent + Action needed = flag, keep in INBOX
  - Human + Not urgent = move to appropriate folder
  - Automated + Important = move to relevant folder
  - Automated + Marketing = move to Newsletters
```

### Conditional Flagging

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Flag emails that:
  - Mention deadlines in the next 48 hours
  - Contain words: urgent, ASAP, immediately, critical
  - Are replies to threads you started

  Flagged emails can still be moved to appropriate folders.
```

## Tips for Local Models

Smaller models (7B parameters) work better with simpler prompts:

```yaml
default_prompt: |
  Classify email by type.

  - Marketing/newsletters -> Newsletters
  - Orders/receipts -> Receipts
  - Important/urgent -> flag
  - Everything else -> appropriate folder
```

**Tips:**
- Keep prompts under 300 words
- Use simple, direct instructions
- Fewer categories work better
- Avoid complex reasoning chains

## Testing Your Prompts

### Use the Dashboard Sandbox

The best way to test prompts is with the **Sandbox** tab:

1. Navigate to the **Sandbox** tab
2. Enter or modify your classification prompt
3. Enter a sample email
4. Configure folder mode and allowed actions
5. Click **Run Test**

The sandbox shows:
- **Actions tab:** Classified actions, confidence, reasoning
- **Prompt tab:** Full prompt sent to LLM
- **Raw Response tab:** Raw LLM response and token usage

### Enable Debug Logging

```yaml
logging:
  level: debug
```

### Use Dry Run Mode

```yaml
dry_run: true
```

Actions are logged but not executed.

## Troubleshooting

### Wrong Folder Names

**Problem:** LLM uses folders not in your allowed list

**Solution:** In predefined mode, the system tells the LLM which folders are allowed. If it still uses wrong names, make your classification rules clearer.

### Inconsistent Results

**Problem:** Same email type gets different classifications

**Solution:** Add explicit examples:
```
Examples:
- "Your Amazon order has shipped" -> Receipts
- "Weekly Tech Digest" -> Newsletters
```

### Actions Not Executing

**Problem:** LLM returns actions that don't run

**Possible causes:**
- Action type not in `allowed_actions`
- Folder doesn't exist (predefined mode)
- Check logs for "Blocked disallowed action"

## Interactive Configuration Sandbox

Test your configuration and prompts in the browser before deploying:

<ConfigSandbox />

## Next Steps

- [Folder modes →](/docs/configuration/folder-modes)
- [Configure accounts →](/docs/configuration/accounts)
- [Test in dashboard →](/docs/features/dashboard)
