docs-site/src/content/docs/troubleshooting/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Common issues and solutions
---

# Troubleshooting

Common issues and their solutions.

## Connection Issues

### IMAP Connection Failed

**Symptoms:**
- "Connection timeout" errors
- "Authentication failed" messages

**Solutions:**
1. Verify IMAP credentials are correct
2. Check IMAP is enabled for the account
3. For Gmail: Use App Password, not account password
4. For Outlook: Ensure OAuth2 is configured
5. Check firewall/network settings

### WebSocket Not Connecting

**Symptoms:**
- Dashboard doesn't update in real-time
- "WebSocket connection failed" in console

**Solutions:**
1. Ensure server is running
2. Check reverse proxy WebSocket support
3. Verify no browser extensions blocking WebSockets

## Processing Issues

### Emails Not Being Processed

**Symptoms:**
- New emails aren't classified
- No activity in dashboard

**Solutions:**
1. Check account is not paused
2. Verify folder is being watched
3. Check logs for errors
4. Test IMAP IDLE support

### LLM Errors

**Symptoms:**
- "LLM request failed" errors
- Emails moved to dead letter queue

**Solutions:**
1. Verify API key is valid
2. Check LLM provider status
3. Ensure sufficient API credits
4. Review prompt complexity

## Performance Issues

### Slow Processing

**Solutions:**
- Use faster LLM models (gpt-4o-mini vs gpt-4o)
- Reduce `max_extracted_chars` for attachments
- Increase `concurrency` setting
- Check database size and cleanup old entries

### High Memory Usage

**Solutions:**
- Restart Mailpilot periodically
- Reduce number of concurrent accounts
- For Ollama: Use smaller models

## Getting Help

- **Matrix Chat**: [#mailpilot:i0.tf](https://matrix.to/#/#mailpilot:i0.tf)
- **GitHub Issues**: [Report bugs](https://github.com/metal0/mailpilot/issues)
- **Documentation**: [Full docs](/)

## Next Steps

- [Configuration Reference →](/docs/configuration/)
- [Dashboard Monitoring →](/docs/features/dashboard)

Commit message:

feat: add interactive components (Phase 4)
Add interactive documentation components to enhance user experience:

Components:
- SetupWizard: Multi-step wizard for guided configuration
  - Email provider selection (Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo, iCloud, ProtonMail, generic)
  - LLM provider selection (OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, OpenRouter)
  - Use case templates (personal, business, developer)
  - Generates customized config.yaml and environment variables

- ConfigSandbox: Browser-based configuration testing
  - YAML validation with error/warning feedback
  - Configuration preview showing parsed accounts/providers
  - Prompt testing visualization
  - Security notice: client-side only, no server transmission

- VersionDiff: Breaking change visualization
  - Side-by-side comparison of v1.x vs v2.x configurations
  - Inline diff view with added/removed/changed highlighting
  - Warning callouts for breaking changes
  - Migration guide suggestions

- MatrixChatWidget: Community chat integration
  - Embedded Matrix chat access
  - Expandable/collapsible widget
  - Direct links to Element and Matrix.to
  - Community support integration

Integration:
- Added SetupWizard to installation page
- Added ConfigSandbox to prompts guide page
- Added MatrixChatWidget to troubleshooting page

All components are client-side React with TypeScript.
YAML parsing uses 'yaml' package for validation.

docs-site/src/content/docs/troubleshooting/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Common issues and solutions
---

import { MatrixChatWidget } from '@/components/MatrixChatWidget';

# Troubleshooting

Common issues and their solutions.

## Connection Issues

### IMAP Connection Failed

**Symptoms:**
- "Connection timeout" errors
- "Authentication failed" messages

**Solutions:**
1. Verify IMAP credentials are correct
2. Check IMAP is enabled for the account
3. For Gmail: Use App Password, not account password
4. For Outlook: Ensure OAuth2 is configured
5. Check firewall/network settings

### WebSocket Not Connecting

**Symptoms:**
- Dashboard doesn't update in real-time
- "WebSocket connection failed" in console

**Solutions:**
1. Ensure server is running
2. Check reverse proxy WebSocket support
3. Verify no browser extensions blocking WebSockets

## Processing Issues

### Emails Not Being Processed

**Symptoms:**
- New emails aren't classified
- No activity in dashboard

**Solutions:**
1. Check account is not paused
2. Verify folder is being watched
3. Check logs for errors
4. Test IMAP IDLE support

### LLM Errors

**Symptoms:**
- "LLM request failed" errors
- Emails moved to dead letter queue

**Solutions:**
1. Verify API key is valid
2. Check LLM provider status
3. Ensure sufficient API credits
4. Review prompt complexity

## Performance Issues

### Slow Processing

**Solutions:**
- Use faster LLM models (gpt-4o-mini vs gpt-4o)
- Reduce `max_extracted_chars` for attachments
- Increase `concurrency` setting
- Check database size and cleanup old entries

### High Memory Usage

**Solutions:**
- Restart Mailpilot periodically
- Reduce number of concurrent accounts
- For Ollama: Use smaller models

## Getting Help

Still stuck? Join our community chat for real-time help:

<MatrixChatWidget />

Or:
- **GitHub Issues**: [Report bugs](https://github.com/metal0/mailpilot/issues)
- **GitHub Discussions**: [Feature requests and Q&A](https://github.com/metal0/mailpilot/discussions)

## Next Steps

- [Configuration Reference →](/docs/configuration/)
- [Dashboard Monitoring →](/docs/features/dashboard)
