docs-site/src/content/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation
description: How to install Mailpilot on your system
---

# Installation

This guide covers different methods to install Mailpilot on your system.

## System Requirements

- **Node.js**: Version 22.0.0 or higher
- **pnpm**: Version 10.28.0 or higher (or npm)
- **Memory**: Minimum 512MB RAM (2GB+ recommended for local LLM models)
- **Disk Space**: 500MB for application + data storage

## Method 1: From Source {#from-source}

Best for development and customization.

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/metal0/mailpilot.git
cd mailpilot
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

This will install all required dependencies including the backend, dashboard, and optional tools.

### 3. Create Configuration

```bash
cp config.example.yaml config.yaml
```

Edit `config.yaml` with your settings. See the [Configuration Guide](/docs/getting-started/configuration) for details.

### 4. Build

```bash
pnpm build
```

This compiles TypeScript and builds the dashboard.

### 5. Run

```bash
pnpm start
```

The application starts on `http://localhost:8080` by default.

## Method 2: Docker {#docker}

Best for production deployment.

### Basic Docker Setup

Create a `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  mailpilot:
    image: ghcr.io/metal0/mailpilot:latest
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
    volumes:
      - ./config.yaml:/app/config.yaml:ro
      - ./data:/app/data
    environment:
      - OPENAI_API_KEY=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
      - GMAIL_USER=${GMAIL_USER}
      - GMAIL_APP_PASSWORD=${GMAIL_APP_PASSWORD}
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Run:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### Full Stack with Tika + ClamAV

For attachment extraction and antivirus scanning:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.full.yaml up -d
```

This includes:
- Mailpilot
- Apache Tika (for PDF/document text extraction)
- ClamAV (for virus scanning)

### Docker Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | Your OpenAI API key | If using OpenAI |
| `GMAIL_USER` | Gmail email address | If using Gmail |
| `GMAIL_APP_PASSWORD` | Gmail app password | If using Gmail |

You can also use a `.env` file with docker compose.

## Method 3: Pre-built Binary {#binary}

<Callout type="info">
Pre-built binaries coming soon! Check [releases](https://github.com/metal0/mailpilot/releases) for availability.
</Callout>

Once available:

1. Download the binary for your platform
2. Make it executable: `chmod +x mailpilot`
3. Create `config.yaml` in the same directory
4. Run: `./mailpilot`

## Verification

After installation, verify it's working:

### 1. Check the Dashboard

Visit `http://localhost:8080` in your browser. You should see the Mailpilot dashboard.

### 2. Check Logs

```bash
# If running from source
tail -f logs/mailpilot.log

# If running in Docker
docker logs -f mailpilot
```

### 3. Test Configuration

Use the dashboard's [Testing Sandbox](/docs/features/dashboard#testing-sandbox) to verify your classification rules.

## Updating

### From Source

```bash
git pull
pnpm install
pnpm build
pnpm start
```

### Docker

```bash
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```

## Troubleshooting Installation

### Node.js Version Issues

Mailpilot requires Node.js 22+. Check your version:

```bash
node --version
```

If you have an older version, install Node.js 22 or use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm):

```bash
nvm install 22
nvm use 22
```

### pnpm Not Found

Install pnpm globally:

```bash
npm install -g pnpm
```

Or use corepack (included with Node.js 16.9+):

```bash
corepack enable
corepack prepare pnpm@latest --activate
```

### Build Fails on better-sqlite3

This is a native dependency. Ensure you have build tools installed:

**Linux/macOS:**
```bash
# Debian/Ubuntu
sudo apt-get install python3 make g++

# macOS
xcode-select --install
```

**Windows:**
```bash
npm install --global windows-build-tools
```

### Docker Permission Denied

On Linux, you may need to add your user to the docker group:

```bash
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
# Log out and back in
```

## Next Steps

- [Configure your email account](/docs/email-providers)
- [Set up an LLM provider](/docs/llm-providers)
- [Write classification rules](/docs/configuration/prompts-guide)

## Getting Help

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the [Troubleshooting Guide](/docs/troubleshooting)
2. Search [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/metal0/mailpilot/issues)
3. Ask in [Matrix Chat](https://matrix.to/#/#mailpilot:i0.tf)

Commit message:

feat: add interactive components (Phase 4)
Add interactive documentation components to enhance user experience:

Components:
- SetupWizard: Multi-step wizard for guided configuration
  - Email provider selection (Gmail, Outlook, Yahoo, iCloud, ProtonMail, generic)
  - LLM provider selection (OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, OpenRouter)
  - Use case templates (personal, business, developer)
  - Generates customized config.yaml and environment variables

- ConfigSandbox: Browser-based configuration testing
  - YAML validation with error/warning feedback
  - Configuration preview showing parsed accounts/providers
  - Prompt testing visualization
  - Security notice: client-side only, no server transmission

- VersionDiff: Breaking change visualization
  - Side-by-side comparison of v1.x vs v2.x configurations
  - Inline diff view with added/removed/changed highlighting
  - Warning callouts for breaking changes
  - Migration guide suggestions

- MatrixChatWidget: Community chat integration
  - Embedded Matrix chat access
  - Expandable/collapsible widget
  - Direct links to Element and Matrix.to
  - Community support integration

Integration:
- Added SetupWizard to installation page
- Added ConfigSandbox to prompts guide page
- Added MatrixChatWidget to troubleshooting page

All components are client-side React with TypeScript.
YAML parsing uses 'yaml' package for validation.

docs-site/src/content/docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation
description: How to install Mailpilot on your system
---

import { SetupWizard } from '@/components/SetupWizard';

# Installation

This guide covers different methods to install Mailpilot on your system.

## Interactive Setup Wizard

Not sure where to start? Use our interactive wizard to generate a customized configuration:

<SetupWizard />

## System Requirements

- **Node.js**: Version 22.0.0 or higher
- **pnpm**: Version 10.28.0 or higher (or npm)
- **Memory**: Minimum 512MB RAM (2GB+ recommended for local LLM models)
- **Disk Space**: 500MB for application + data storage

## Method 1: From Source {#from-source}

Best for development and customization.

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/metal0/mailpilot.git
cd mailpilot
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
pnpm install
```

This will install all required dependencies including the backend, dashboard, and optional tools.

### 3. Create Configuration

```bash
cp config.example.yaml config.yaml
```

Edit `config.yaml` with your settings. See the [Configuration Guide](/docs/getting-started/configuration) for details.

### 4. Build

```bash
pnpm build
```

This compiles TypeScript and builds the dashboard.

### 5. Run

```bash
pnpm start
```

The application starts on `http://localhost:8080` by default.

## Method 2: Docker {#docker}

Best for production deployment.

### Basic Docker Setup

Create a `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  mailpilot:
    image: ghcr.io/metal0/mailpilot:latest
    ports:
      - "8080:8080"
    volumes:
      - ./config.yaml:/app/config.yaml:ro
      - ./data:/app/data
    environment:
      - OPENAI_API_KEY=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
      - GMAIL_USER=${GMAIL_USER}
      - GMAIL_APP_PASSWORD=${GMAIL_APP_PASSWORD}
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Run:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### Full Stack with Tika + ClamAV

For attachment extraction and antivirus scanning:

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.full.yaml up -d
```

This includes:
- Mailpilot
- Apache Tika (for PDF/document text extraction)
- ClamAV (for virus scanning)

### Docker Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | Your OpenAI API key | If using OpenAI |
| `GMAIL_USER` | Gmail email address | If using Gmail |
| `GMAIL_APP_PASSWORD` | Gmail app password | If using Gmail |

You can also use a `.env` file with docker compose.

## Method 3: Pre-built Binary {#binary}

<Callout type="info">
Pre-built binaries coming soon! Check [releases](https://github.com/metal0/mailpilot/releases) for availability.
</Callout>

Once available:

1. Download the binary for your platform
2. Make it executable: `chmod +x mailpilot`
3. Create `config.yaml` in the same directory
4. Run: `./mailpilot`

## Verification

After installation, verify it's working:

### 1. Check the Dashboard

Visit `http://localhost:8080` in your browser. You should see the Mailpilot dashboard.

### 2. Check Logs

```bash
# If running from source
tail -f logs/mailpilot.log

# If running in Docker
docker logs -f mailpilot
```

### 3. Test Configuration

Use the dashboard's [Testing Sandbox](/docs/features/dashboard#testing-sandbox) to verify your classification rules.

## Updating

### From Source

```bash
git pull
pnpm install
pnpm build
pnpm start
```

### Docker

```bash
docker compose pull
docker compose up -d
```

## Troubleshooting Installation

### Node.js Version Issues

Mailpilot requires Node.js 22+. Check your version:

```bash
node --version
```

If you have an older version, install Node.js 22 or use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm):

```bash
nvm install 22
nvm use 22
```

### pnpm Not Found

Install pnpm globally:

```bash
npm install -g pnpm
```

Or use corepack (included with Node.js 16.9+):

```bash
corepack enable
corepack prepare pnpm@latest --activate
```

### Build Fails on better-sqlite3

This is a native dependency. Ensure you have build tools installed:

**Linux/macOS:**
```bash
# Debian/Ubuntu
sudo apt-get install python3 make g++

# macOS
xcode-select --install
```

**Windows:**
```bash
npm install --global windows-build-tools
```

### Docker Permission Denied

On Linux, you may need to add your user to the docker group:

```bash
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
# Log out and back in
```

## Next Steps

- [Configure your email account](/docs/email-providers)
- [Set up an LLM provider](/docs/llm-providers)
- [Write classification rules](/docs/configuration/prompts-guide)

## Getting Help

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the [Troubleshooting Guide](/docs/troubleshooting)
2. Search [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/metal0/mailpilot/issues)
3. Ask in [Matrix Chat](https://matrix.to/#/#mailpilot:i0.tf)
